1. Security and Risk Management
  A. Security Fundamentals
    % Integral parts of information security administration are Physical controls, Technical controls, and Administrative controls
    1) The five pillars of information security
    2) Confidentiality - sensitive information, encryption, steganography
    3) Integrity - Hash, changes in hash values, digital signatures (Authenticity, Non-repudiation), digital certificates
    4) Availability - patching
      % A patch management process includes evaluating patches, testing patches, and auditing patches.
    5) Authenticity and nonrepudiation - physical signature, digital signature, bio-security, video surveillance
  B. Security Governance
      % Security governance seeks to compare the security processes and infrastructure used within the organization with knowledge and insight obtained from external sources.
    1) Aligning security with the business - security leader, business leader, security professionals  
      * unbalanced decisions
    2) Organizational processes
    3) Security roles and responsibilities - Due Care(legal responsibilities), Due Diligence(reasonable measures)
      % Due care is practicing the individual activities that maintain the security effort.
    4) Control and risk frameworks 
      - COBIT (Control Objectives for IT, Audit), ISO Standards (IT control), NIST 800-53, NIST RMF (800-37), FedRAMP, SABSA
      % While COBIT focuses more on aligning IT management with business objectives and governance,
        ISO standards provide specific requirements for maintaining information security management quality and consistency across industries globally.
      - SABSA (Sherwood Applied Business Security Architecture)
  C. Compliance and Ethics
    1) Legal and compliance risks - GDPR, PCI DSS
    2) Data privacy - PII (Identifiable), PHI (Health), GAPP(Accept Privacy, AICPA, CICA, ISACA, IIA)
    3) GDPR - E.U regulations, anyone in E.U geolocation
    4) California privacy law - CPRA (SPI = Sensitive)
    5) National data privacy laws - PIPL(China), PPIA (South Africa)
      % The 1991 U.S. Federal Sentencing Guidelines were established to provide a framework for sentencing organizations (including corporations) for criminal conduct, particularly white-collar crimes.
    6) Computer crimes - CFAA (Access), ECPA (network communication), ITADA (Identity)
      % The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) primarily focuses on unauthorized access to computer systems,
        especially those related to financial institutions, federal government systems, and the misuse of passwords for fraudulent purposes.
    7) Software Licensing - SLA, ELAs (Enterprise), EULAs(End User License Agreements)
      - Contractual agreements(high value)
    8) Intellectual Property - Copyrights, Trademarks, Patents(protect inventions)
      % The Digital Millennium Copyright Act contains provisions prohibiting the circumvention of copyright protection mechanisms.
      % Copyright protection generally lasts for 70 years after the death of the last surviving author of the work.
      % U.S. patent law provides for an exclusivity period of 20 years beginning at the time a utility patent application is submitted to the Patent and Trademark Office.
      % A trade secret is a type of intellectual property that includes formulas, practices, designs, instruments, or processes that are not generally known or reasonably ascertainable by others,
        and protects confidential information which provide a business with a competitive advantage.
      % Downstream liability refers to the legal responsibility that one party may have for the actions of another party downstream in a distribution chain,
        typically relating to intellectual property rights, defamation, or other legal issues.
    9) Import and export controls - ITAR (defense articles), EAR (dual use), OFAC (Sansation)
      % The Safe Harbor requirements were a framework established between the United States and the European Union
    10) Data breaches
      * Encryption is easy to protect data breach
    11) Ethics
      * ISC2 members are required to report breaches of the Code of Ethics to ISC2 for investigation
      % The Internet Architecture Board(IAB) developed an ethics-related statement concerning the use of the internet, particularly through their "Ethics and the Internet" document
  D. Security Policy
    1) Security policy framework - policies > standard(details) > guidelines(advice) / procedures    
      * Policy, standards, and procedures are mandatory. Guidelines are optional
    2) Security Policies
      % An Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) defines the guidelines and restrictions for how users are allowed to employ company resources, such as hardware, software, internet access, and data.
      % An information policy defines how data is categorized based on its sensitivity and importance, which helps in determining the appropriate security measures and handling procedures.
  E. Business Continuity
    1) Business continuity planning(a corrective control) - BIA (Business Impact Assessment, identifies and prioritizes)    
      * BCP is also known as continuity of operations planning (COOP), BCP in the cloud is a partnership between providers and customers.
      % BCP includes strategies to prevent or minimize the impact of a disaster on the organization, ensuring that critical operations remain available or can be quickly restored.
      % People should always be your highest priority in business continuity planning.
      % In the provisions and processes phase, the BCP team designs the procedures and mechanisms to mitigate risks that were deemed unacceptable during the strategy development phase.
      % Risk mitigation controls to address acceptable risks would not be in the BCP.
      % An executive succession plan is designed to identify and prepare individuals to fill key leadership roles within an organization in the event that they become vacant, whether due to a disaster or other circumstances.
    2) Business continuity controls - Single Point of Failure Analysis, Contingency Plan
      % Restoration team, damage assessment team, and salvage team execute the final plan.
    3) High availability (Multi-system, minimal interrupt) and fault tolerance (Single system) - load balancing (work evenly)
        Component redundancy - such as power supply or fan
        clustering - all active working
        RAID (Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks) = Disk mirroring (RAID 1), Disk Striping (RAID 5)
        * RAID is a fault-tolerance technique, not a backup state
        % Disk mirroring (RAID 1) creates an exact copy of the data on a second drive. If one drive fails, the system can immediately switch to the mirrored drive,
          reducing downtime and making repairs more manageable and quicker without the need for data restoration.
  F. Personnel Security
    1) Personnel security - strong security policy, insider threat
    2) Security in the hiring process - Employment Agreements, NDAs(Non-Disclosure Agreements)
    3) Employee termination process - Exit interview, Revoke Access Promptly
    4) Employee privacy - minimization, limit access, encryption, masking (hiding)
    5) Social networking - multi-factoring
  G. Risk Management
    1) Risk analysis, assessment, and scope    
      * Threat vectors are the specific methods that threats use to exploit a vulnerability
    2) Quantitative risk assessment 
      - single risk and asset pair, Asset Value(AV), Exposure Factor(EF), Single-Loss Expectancy(SLE)
      - AV * EF = SLE
      - Annualized Rate of Occurrence(ARO), Annualized Loss Expectancy(ALE),
      - SLE * ARO = ALE
      * Be prepared to work through a quantitative risk assessment calculation on the exam
      % The annualized loss expectancy (ALE) is the best metric to compare relative risks because it incorporates both the likelihood and the impact of those risks.
      - Mean Time to Failure(MTTF), Mean Time Between Failure(MTBF), Mean Time to Repair(MTTR)
      % maximum tolerable downtime (MTD) represents the maximum amount of time that a business function or resource can be unavailable before it causes significant harm to the organization.
    3) Risk treatment - Inherent Risk => controls applied => residual risk + control risk, Expansionary/Neutral/Conservative
    4) Security control selection and implementation - Defense in Depth    
      * Technical controls are implemented by technology while operational controls are implemented by people!
    5) Continuous monitoring, measurement, and tuning
    6) Risk management frameworks - NIST 800-37 (categorize, select, implement, assess, authorize, monitor)
    7) Risk visibility and reporting
      % Risk mitigation procedures are usually developed by security or risk management teams within the organization.
        Senior management is responsible for setting the overall risk acceptance level, allocating resources, and approving monetary budgets for risk management.
  H. Threat Modeling
    1) Threat intelligence - Open-source intelligence, Email Address Harvesting
    2) Managing threat indicators - CybOX, STIX, TAXII, OpenIOC
    3) Intelligence sharing - ISACs, ISA(interconnection security agreement)
    4) Threat research
    5) Identifying threats - structured approach
    6) Automating threat intelligence - Data Enrichment
    7) Threat hunting
  I. Supply Chain Risk Management
    1) Managing vendor relationships - VMS(vendor management system)
    2) Vendor agreements - SLRs, SLA, MOU, MOA, BPA
    3) Vendor information management
    4) Cloud audits - SOC1(assurance), SOC2(detailed), SOC3 (high-level), Type I report(control), Type II report(testing), SSAE 18, ISAE 3402
      % SOC 3 engagements assess the organization’s controls that affect the security and privacy of information stored in a system.
  J. Awareness and Training
    1) Security awareness training
    2) Compliance training
    3) User habits
    4) Measuring compliance and security

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Asset Security
  A. Data Security
    1) Understanding data security
      - Data at Rest, Data in Transit, Data in Use
    2) Data security policies
      - Data classification, Data Lifecycle Policy (Retention, Disposal)
      % Record retention policies define the amount of time to keep data, and laws or regulations often drive these policies.
    3) Data security roles
      - Data Owner(business leaders) > Steward(handling day to day) > Custodian(IT staff members) > User
      % A data controller decides what data to process and how it is processed.
      % The data controller identifies what data to pass to the data processor and how that data should be processed.
      % The data custodian is responsible for day-to-day tasks to protect data, such as backing up data.
      % Data custodians might have a role, but the overall responsibility often lies with security professionals and other relevant departments.
      % Data owners have the ultimate responsibility for protecting data, and they identify the classification of data.
      - Data Subject(collected data), Data processors(third parties)
      * GDPR uses the term data controller instead of data owner
      * System ownership and data ownership are two different concepts
    4) Limiting data collection
      - Minimize information collected, Monitor Third Parties
      % A data haven either has no laws or poorly enforced laws for information protection.
    5) The data lifecycle
      - Create, Store, Use, Share, Archive, Destroy
      - Clearing(Casual), Purging(advanced), Destroying
      % Purging writes a series of 1s and 0s over media multiple times, and it removes all data remnants.
  B. Data Security Controls
    1) Developing security baselines
      - Baselines are generic, Monitoring is critical
      % Security baselines often require hundreds or thousands of individual security settings on a particular device.
    2) Leveraging industry standards
    3) Customizing security standards
    4) Cloud storage security
      - Encryption, Access control
    5) Information classification
      - Data Classification Policy, Labeling Requirement
      % The term synonymous with security label is sensitivity label.
      % Information is compartmentalized in the information flow model are classification(Assigns a security level) and need to know(Ensures that only individuals).
      % The information flow model is concerned with the transfer of information between different security levels.
        It typically allows information to flow within the same security level and restricts the flow of information from lower to higher security levels to prevent unauthorized access or information leakage.
    6) Digital rights management
      - IRM(information rights management), DRM(Digital Right)
      % Persistent online authentication, automatic expiration, and a continuous audit trail are all methods used with digital rights management (DRM) technologies.
    7) Data loss prevention
      - DLP(Data Loss Prevention), Host-based, Network-based, Pattern Matching, Watermarking, Cloud-based
      % A network-based data loss prevention (DLP) system monitors outgoing traffic (egress monitoring, outbound) and can thwart data exfiltration attempts.
      % Pseudonymization replaces data with a pseudonym or alias to protect the privacy of individuals identified in the original dataset.
      % Drive encryption (also known as full disk encryption) protects the entire contents of a storage device, ensuring that the data cannot be accessed by unauthorized users,
        even if the physical device is stolen or accessed without permission.
  C. Change and Configuration Management
    1) Change management
      - RFC(Request for change)
      % Concurrency uses a “lock” feature to allow an authorized user to make changes and then “unlock” the data elements only after the changes are complete.
      % Change management aims to ensure that any change does not result in unintended outages or reduce security.
      % Change management processes include requesting a change, creating a rollback plan for the change, and documenting the change.
    2) Configuration and asset management
      - Baselines, Versioning
    3) Physical asset management
      - Media management(tracks highly sensitive data)
      % The capability aspect is crucial as it determines how much data the medium can hold, which is directly related to your organization's storage needs.
    4) Supply chain risks and mitigations
      - End of Sale(no longer be offered for purchase), End of Support(reduce or eliminate support), End of Life(no longer provide any support)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3. Security Architecture and Engineering
  A. Secure Design
    1) Secure design principles
      - Fail open, Fail secure
      % Network segmentation involves dividing a network into smaller parts to improve security and manageability, 
        but it doesn't directly prevent programs from accessing each other.
      % Process isolation is a security measure that ensures different programs run separately,
        preventing them from accessing or interfering with each other.
    2) Security models
      - Bell-LaPadula Model(confidentiality, No read up, no write down), Biba Model(integrity, no read down, no write up)
      * The Bell-LaPadula model is rarely implemented outside of military applications
      * The Bell-LaPadula model and Biba models are important for the exam but rarely used in the real world
      % The tranquility principle ensures that the security labels of subjects and objects do not change dynamically, maintaining system stability and preventing the bypassing of security controls by altering security levels.
      % The Take-Grant model is an access control model that uses states and state transitions to define how rights can be transferred between subjects and objects.
      % In a dedicated security mode, every user who has access to the system must have the appropriate security clearance and formal approval to access all information processed by that system.
    3) Security evaluation models
      - TCSEC, Common Criteria, Certification and Accreditation(ATO, IATO, IATT, DATO)
      % The Common Criteria Evaluation Assurance Level (EAL) is a scale that measures the depth and rigor of an evaluation for information technology products. It ranges from EAL1 to EAL7:
        EAL1: Functionally Tested. EAL2: Structurally Tested. EAL3: Methodically Tested and Checked. EAL4: Methodically Designed, Tested, and Reviewed (common benchmark for commercial products).
        EAL5: Semi-Formally Designed and Tested. EAL6: Semi-Formally Verified Design and Tested. EAL7: Formally Verified Design and Tested (highest level of assurance).
      * Certification and accreditation are different. Accreditation and authorization are the same.
      % Certification is the process of evaluating and verifying that security controls are correctly implemented and functioning as intended within an information system.
      % Security targets (STs) specify the claims of security from the vendor that are built into a target of evaluation (TOE).
    4) Segregation of duties
      % Segregation of duties is the principle that ensures no individual has access to multiple permissions
        that would allow them to perform a highly sensitive action alone, preventing fraud and errors.
      % Two-person control is a security measure that requires at least two authorized individuals to perform certain actions,
        ensuring that no single person can complete sensitive tasks alone.
    5) Privacy by design
      (1) Proactive preventive
      (2) Privacy as the Default Setting
      (3) Privacy Embedded into Design
      (4) Full Functionality
      (5) End to End security
      (6) Visibility and Transparency
      (7) Respect for User Privacy
    6) Secure defaults
      - Keep It Simple and Small
    7) Information system lifecycle
  B. Virtualization and Cloud Computing
    1) What is the cloud?
    2) Cloud computing roles
      - Cloud Access Security Broker(CASB)
    3) Drivers for cloud computing
      - On-demand self-service, Scalability, Elasticity, Broad Network Access, Measured Service
    4) Security service providers
      * MSSPs(Managed Security Service Providers) may also be referred to as security as a service (SECaaS)
      - Network-based CASB, API-Based CASB
    5) Multitenant computing
      - Oversubscription, Resource Pooling
    6) Virtualization
      - Type 1, Type 2(Operating system, personal device), VM Sprawl
      % Type 1 hypervisor is known as bare metal and runs on top of bare hardware.
      % Type 2 hypervisor is known as hosted and runs on top of an operating system.
    7) Desktop and application virtualization
      - VDI(Virtual Desktop Infrastructure), Application Virtualization
    8) Cloud compute resources
    9) Containerization
      - Applications are what containerized computing environments are created for.
      % A hypervisor is not part of containerization. A hypervisor is an application where you can create, manage, and run multiple VMs.
    10) Cloud activities and the cloud reference architecture
      - ISO/IEC 17789:2014
      * Reference architectures provide a useful framework, but they're just a starting point.
    11) Cloud deployment models
      * No cloud model is inherently superior to the other approaches. It all depends on the context.
      % Vertical scaling adds more resources to existing servers to meet demand.
      % Horizontal scaling adds more servers to the pool to meet increased demand.
    12) Cloud service categories
      - XaaS, SaaS(entire app / Data), PaaS(app platform / Data, Application), IaaS(Servers/storage / Data, Application, OS), FaaS(serverless computing)
      * Understanding the shared responsibility model is crucial for cybersecurity professionals.
    13) Edge and fog computing
      % In edge computing, the intelligence and processing are contained within each device. Thus, rather than having to send data off to a master processing entity,
        each device can process its own data locally.
      % Fog computing relies on sensors, IoT devices, or even edge computing devices to collect data and then transfer it back to a central location for processing.
  C. Hardware Security
    1) Memory protection
      - Segmentation Fault, Memory Leak
      % Write blockers are hardware devices used to prevent the accidental writing of data to media that was collected as evidence.
      % indirect memory addressing is the address field points to a memory cell that contains the address of the operand.
      % Monitoring CPU load and memory usage helps identify performance-related problems, such as resource bottlenecks, application inefficiencies, and overall system health.
      % Direct Memory Access (DMA) allows devices to transfer data directly to or from memory without involving the CPU in each step of the transfer process.
    2) Hardware encryption
      - AES Crypt, FDE(Full-Disk Encryption), HSM(Hardware Security Module), TPM(Trusted Platform Modules), SED(Self-Encrypting Drive)
    3) Hardware and firmware security
      - BIOS, UEFI(Unified Extensible Firmware Interface), Measured Boot, Attestation, Hardware Root of Trust, EMI(Electromagnetic Interference, EMP)
  D. ServerSecurity Issues
    1) Server and database security
      - Aggregation(Combing), Inference
      % Open Database Connectivity(ODBC) is a database feature that allows applications to communicate with different types of databases without having to be directly programmed for interaction with each type.
      % ODBC (Open Database Connectivity) is a standard API that enables applications to access data from various database management systems (DBMS) using SQL as the standard language.
    2) NoSQL databases
    3) Distributed and high-performance computing
      - Large-Scale Parallel Data, Grid Computing, Peer-to-peer Computing(Tor)
      % Grid computing utilizes the unused processing power of multiple computers across different locations,
        combining them to form a virtual supercomputer that is managed by a centralized controller.
  E. Embedded Systems Security
    1) Industrial control systems and operational technology
      - SCADA(Remote Central), DCS(Controlling processes), PLC
      % SCADA is used to gather information from remote sensors via telemetry.
      % Distributed Control System (DCS) is used to control industrial processes.
      % Programmable Logic Controller (PLCs) is a device used to monitor and control industrial equipment.
    2) Internet of things
    3) Securing smart devices
      - Firmware Version Control, Security Wrapper
    4) Secure networking for smart devices
      * Network segmentation is the most important control for embedded devices
      * Embedded device security controls are effective for mainframes as well
    5) Embedded systems
      - RTOSs(Real-time), CAN bus
      % The embedded system is typically designed around a limited set of specific functions in relation to the larger product of which it’s a component.
    6) Communications for embedded devices
  F. Encryption
    1) Understanding encryption
      % Cryptanalysis is primarily concerned with studying and analyzing cryptographic systems to find weaknesses and vulnerabilities.
      % A trapdoor function is a type of cryptographic function that is easy to compute in one direction but difficult to reverse without special information.
    2) Symmetric and asymmetric cryptography
      - Symmetric(same key), Asymmetric(different key, public, private)
      * Keys used to encrypt and decrypt using asymmetric cryptography must be from the same pair
    3) Goals and cryptography
      - Confidentiality, Integrity, Authentication, Obfuscation(hiding), Non-Repudiation
    4) Codes and ciphers
      * Codes and ciphers are related concepts, but you should know the difference when you take the exam
      - Stream Ciphers, Block Ciphers
    5) Cryptographic math
      - Exclusive Or(XOR), 
      - Confusion, Defusion, Obfuscation
    6) Choosing encryption algorithms
       * Don't try to build your own encryption algorithm unless you really know what you're doing
    7) The perfect encryption algorithm
       - One-Time pad
       % Securely exchanging the pads is essential for the security of one-time pad operations, 
         as interception by a third party could compromise the security of the encrypted messages.
       % Using AES (Advanced Encryption Standard) in conjunction with the one-time pad is not critical to the security of one-time pad operations,
         as the one-time pad's security is already absolute if implemented correctly.
       % The XOR operation is used to combine the plaintext with the one-time pad key to produce the ciphertext.
       % The Message Authentication Code (MAC) ensures message integrity.
    8) The cryptographic lifecycle
  G. Symmetric Cryptography
    1) Data encryption standard(DES) - 64bit blocks, 54bit length
      % DES uses 16 rounds of computation
    2) 3DES
      * Double DES is no more secure than standard DES, due to the meet-in-the-middle attack
      - 64-bit block, 112-bit length
    3) AES, Blowfish, and Twofish
      - Rihndael algorithm, 128-bit blocks, 128, 192, 256 bits lengths
      - Blowfish = 64 bit blocks, 32~448 bits key lengths
      - Twofish = 128-bit blocks, 128,192,256 bits lengths
    4) RC4 - WEP, WPA, SSL, TLS
    5) Cipher modes - ECB mode, CBC mode, Counter mode
      * Counter mode allows block ciphers to act more like stream ciphers
      % CBC(Cipher Block Chaining) mode feeds the ciphertext of the previous block into the encryption of the next block, 
        ensuring that identical plaintext blocks encrypt to different ciphertext blocks when the preceding ciphertext block is different.
      % Counter mode (CTR) encrypts successive values of a "counter" and uses this to encrypt the plaintext, 
        meaning it does not depend on the previous encrypted block for the next block's encryption.
      % The Feistel cipher structure is a symmetric encryption design model used in many block ciphers such as Blowfish, CAST-128, and Skipjack.
    6) Steganography
  H. Asymmetric Cryptography
    1) Rivest-Shamir-Adelman(RSA)
      * Users create RSA key pairs using two large prime numbers.
      % A public key encryption algorithm
    2) PGP and GnuPG
      - Pretty Good Privacy, Open PGP, Combine Sym and Asym
      % A randomly generated symmetric key is used to encrypt the contents of a message when using PGP.
      - GPG
    3) Elliptic curve and quantum cryptography
      * You won't need to know the details of ECC. Remember that it doesn't use prime factorization.
      % Elliptic curve cryptography relies on the difficulty of the elliptic curve discrete logarithm problem,
        which quantum algorithms can solve more efficiently than classical algorithms.
      % Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) is more efficient than RSA because it provides equivalent security with much smaller key sizes.
  I. Key management
    1) Key management practices
    2) Key exchange - Out-of-band key exchange, in-band key exchange(Diffie-Hellman)
    3) Diffie-hellman - Asymmetric
      % The difficulty of solving the discrete logarithm problem provides the security underlying the Diffie-Hellman algorithm.
      % The Diffie-Hellman algorithm is used to securely exchange cryptographic keys over a public, nonsecure medium.
    4) Key escrow - Recovery Agents
      % The clipper chip performed encryption, but it included a special law enforcement access field, or LEAF, value
        that allowed government agents to access the content of the communication.
    5) Key stretching - Salting, Hashing, PBKDF2 (Password-based key Derivation Function v2), bcryypt(blowfish)
    6) Hardware security modules(HSM)
  J. Public Key Infrastructure
    1) Trust models - Asymmetric Cryptography, Web of Trust(WOT)
    2) PKI and digital certificates
      % X.509 defines the format of public key certificates, which are used within PKI to authenticate and secure communications over networks, particularly the Internet.
      % In PKI, the revocation request grace period refers to the time it may take for a Certificate Authority (CA) to process and update the revocation status of a certificate.
      % A trust anchor refers to a public key that can be used to verify the certificate used in a digital signature
    3) Hash functions - MD5, SHA(Federal Computer), RIPEMD(government-sponsored)
      % The SHA-2 hash function produces hashes of 224, 256, or 512 bits.
      % Any change to the contents of a file changes the hash value generated for that file. This would include changing a single character, removing a line, or adding a line (even if that line is blank).
      % The hashing algorithm that was designed to be used with the Digital Signature Standard (DSS) is the Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA), specifically SHA-1 developed by the National Security Agency (NSA)
      % Message digests (or hashes) are used to prove the integrity of the original image.
    4) Digital signatures 
      - Authentication(signed message), Integrity(not alter), Non-reputation(prove third party)
      % Authentication verifies the identity of the sender
      % Digital signatures verify the authenticity and integrity of the driver files, ensuring they come from a trusted source and have not been tampered with since being published. 
      - Collision-resistant, Asymmetric                    
    5) Digital signature standard
      - RSA, ECDSA, EdDSA
      % DSA is no longer an acceptable implementation of digital signatures in the federal government under FIPS 186-5.
    6) Created a digital certificate
    7) Revoke a digital certificate - CRL(Certificate Revocation List), OCSP(Online Certificate Status Protocol)
      % The most effective method of revoking digital certificates is through the interactive OCSP responder.
      % Utilizing certificate revocation lists for revoking digital certificates is a manual process with inherent delays.
    8) Certificate stapling
      - Helping future visits for 24 hours
      % Certificate stapling involves a server sending a timestamped OCSP response to prove a certificate's validity
        but does not indicate that a certificate is unlikely to change over time.
    9) Certificate authorities
      - Self-Signed certificates, Offline CAs
      % The certificate owner can self-sign their own certificate. However, self-signed certificates may be used only internally and are not considered valid on the Internet.
      % The certificate authority(CA) digitally signs applicant certificates with the CA's digital signature.
      % The root CA is an offline CA that is used only to sign the certificates of intermediate CAs belonging to the same organization.
      % Internal CA refers to a certificate authority within an organization, which could be online or offline depending on its role, but is not specifically categorized as typically offline.
    10) Certificate subjects
      * You may find exam questions that discuss certificate object identifiers (OIDs).
      - Servers(SSH), Devices, Individuals, Developers(code signing)
      % SSH encrypts the connection between the client and server, ensuring that data, commands, and terminal sessions are protected from eavesdropping and tampering.
      - Certificate Pinning
      % Certificate pinning is used to tell clients that a certificate, or its public key, is unlikely to change over time.
        It helps in preventing man-in-the-middle attacks by ensuring that the client accepts only a specific certificate or public key.
    11) Certificate types
      - Root Certificates, Wildcard Certificates
      - Domain validation(DV), organizational validation(OV), extended validation(EV, highest)
    12) Certificate formats
      - DER(Distinguished Encoding Rules), PEM(Privacy Enhanced Mail)
      * CRT files may be either DER binary certificates or PEM text certificates.
      - PFX(Personal Information Exchange), P7B
      % The PFX format is most closely associated with Windows systems that store certificates in binary format, whereas the P7B format is used for Windows systems storing files in text format.
  K. Cryptanalytic Attacks
    1) Brute-force attacks
    2) Knowledge-based attacks
      - Frequency Analysis
      * You won't need to perform cryptanalysis on the exam. You just need to know the different techniques.
      % Frequency analysis attack involves statistical analysis of ciphertext to detect patterns that might reveal the underlying plaintext,
        exploiting the fact that certain letters or combinations appear more frequently in a language.
      - Chosen Plaintext Attack
      % Chosen plaintext attack allows the attacker to encrypt plaintexts of their choosing, gaining information to decrypt other messages 
        or deduce the encryption key, rather than analyzing ciphertext for patterns.
      % Chosen ciphertext attacks require access to the algorithm and work by having the attacker perform encryption that results in an expected ciphertext.
    3) Eavesdropping attacks - Man-in-the-middle attack, Replay attack, SSL Stripping
      % RSH is an older protocol that transmits data, including passwords, in plaintext, making it vulnerable to interception by attackers like man-in-the-middle.
    4) Implementation attacks - Fault Injection Attack, Side-channel attack, Timing attack
      % Fault injection attacks compromise the integrity of a cryptographic device by causing some type of external fault, such as the application of high-voltage electricity.
      % Implementation attacks rely on flaws in the cryptographic algorithm.
    5) Limitations of encryption algorithms
    6) Ransomware - Mimikatz, Countermeasure(Backups, Antimalware)
      * Ransomware is specifically called out in the exam objectives
  L. Physical Security
    1) Site and facility design
      % Lighting is often claimed to be the most commonly deployed physical security mechanism.
      % An access control vestibule is a double set of doors that is often protected by a guard and used to contain a subject until their identity and authentication is verified.
      % Security guards have the ability to make real-time decisions and discriminating judgments based on context, assess situations dynamically, and respond accordingly.
    2) Data center environmental controls - Expanded Envelope(64.5~80.6), Dew Point Range(15.8~59)
      * Watch for exam questions that are indirectly covering the hot aisle/cold aisle strategy
    3) Data center environment protection
      - Class A(wood), Class B(oil), Class C(data center), Class D (industrial), Class K(Kitchen)
      * Be able to identify the classes of fire extinguishers on the exam.
    4) Power control - Blackouts, Sags, Brownouts, Spikes, Surges(a prolonged high voltage)
      % Line conditioners are devices designed to regulate voltage and clean the power supply by filtering out noise, spikes, and other electrical disturbances,
        ensuring a steady and consistent voltage level to protect sensitive equipment.
      % A UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) is a device that provides backup power to electronic equipment during power outages or voltage drops.
    5) Physical access control - Locks
      % Shimming involves using a thin piece of metal or plastic, called a shim, to bypass the locking mechanism of a lock, especially padlocks or door locks.
      % Raking is a lockpicking technique used to manipulate the pins inside a lock to align them with the shear line, allowing the lock to open.
    6) Visitor management
      % Cameras should always be disclosed to visitors when used as part of physical security controls to ensure compliance with privacy laws and regulations.
    7) Physical security personnel - Two-Person Integrity
  M. Software Security Architecture
    1) SOAP and REST 
      - API(Application Programming Interface, AWS, Twitter)
      - SOAP(Simple Object Access Protocol) = XML
      - REST(Representational State Transfer) = HTTPS
    2) SOA and microservices
      - Service-Oriented Architecture
      - Microservices
      % Microservices are fine-grained services that provide small and discrete functions to other services.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4. Communication and Network Security
  A. TCP/IP Networking
    1) Introducing TCP/IP - TCP / UDP, OSI Model
      * Know the seven layers of the OSI model and the four layers of the TCP model.
      % Data-link layer has flow control, error notification, and physical addressing.
      % Flow control in Data and transport layers manages the rate of data transmission between two devices to ensure that a fast sender does not overwhelm a slow receiver.
      % The Network layer (Layer 3) is responsible for ensuring that data is properly directed through the network to reach its intended endpoint such as path selection and logical addressing.
      % The Application layer provides the interface between the application software and the network, enabling various services such as file transfers, printing, messaging, and email.
      % An active hub functions at the Physical layer (Layer 1) of the OSI model.
    2) IP addresses and DHCP - IPv4, IPv6
      % The "/22" indicates that 22 bits are used for the network portion of the address. Since IPv4 addresses are 32 bits in total, the remaining bits are used for the host portion. 32 - 22 = 10
    3) Network traffic
    4) Domain name system (DNS) - UDP port 53, DNSSEC(digital signatures)
    5) Network ports
      * Memorize the list of common ports before taking the exam.
      - Port 21(FTP), Port 22(SSH), Port 3389(RDP), Port 137, 138, and 139(NetBIOS)
      - Port 25(SMTP), Port 110(POP), Port 143(IMAP)
      - Port 80(HTTP), Port 443(HTTPS)
    6) ICMP -Traceroute
    7) Multilayer protocols -  DNP3(Distributed Network Protocol)
      % Encapsulation is both a benefit and a potentially harmful implication of multilayer protocols.
  B. Secure Network Design
    1) Public and private addressing - IP Addresses Scarce, Network Address Translation(NAT), Port Address Translation(PAT)
      % Network Address Translation-Protocol Translation (NAT-PT) (RFC-2766) can be used to convert between IPv4 and IPv6 network segments similar to how NAT converts between internal and external addresses.
    2) Subnetting - Subnet Masks
    3) Security zones - Zero Trust, Extranet, Honeynet, Ad Hoc Network(Temporary, "for this specific purpose")
      % A network firewall is a security solution that can be used to separate a network into three distinct security zones.
      % A screened subnet is a type of security zone that can be positioned so that it operates as a buffer network between the secured private network and the internet and can host publicly accessible services.
    4) Isolating sensitive systems 
      - Network Segmentation
      * Physically isolated systems are called "air-gapped" systems.
      % A VPN is a secure tunnel used to establish connections across a potentially insecure intermediary network. Intranet, subnet, extranet, and VLAN are examples of network segmentation.
      - Jump Server
      * Jump servers, jump boxes, and jump hosts are all the same thing.
    5) VLANs and logical segmentation - VRF(Virtual Routing and Forwarding), Virtual Domain, Network Overlays, Encapsulation
      % LiFi (Light Fidelity) uses light to transmit data wirelessly, employing LED lights to provide high-speed communication in a manner similar to WiFi, but with light waves instead of radio waves.
    6) Security device placement
    7) Software defined networking(SDN)
    8) Transmission media - VPC, SDV
    9) Cloud networking
    10) Zero trust and SASE
  C. Network Security Design
    1) Routers, switches, and bridges
      % A switch operates primarily at layer 2 of the OSI model, handling data frames between devices on the same local area network (LAN).
      % A router operates mainly at layer 3, routing data packets between different networks based on IP addresses.
      % A router is the correct location to deploy Access Control Lists (ACLs) for confining sensitive internal data traffic to specific subnets
      % IPsec operates at the Network layer (layer 3).
      % Cut-through switching is a method used in network switches where the switch starts forwarding a data frame to the destination as soon as it reads the destination address from the frame's header,
        without waiting for the entire frame to be received.
    2) Network topologies
      % A Multistation Access Unit (MAU) is a central connecting device used in Token Ring networks
    3) Transport architecture
      % Configuring devices, monitoring performance, and troubleshooting problems are tasks associated with the management plane,
        which oversees and manages the network.
      % The control plane is responsible for making decisions about where data should flow through the network,
        using protocols to determine the best path for data packets.
    4) Firewalls - Stateful Inspection, Implicit Deny
      * You need to understand the default/implicit deny principle of firewalls.
      % The implicit deny principle ensures that access to an object is denied unless access has been expressly allowed (or explicitly granted) to a subject.
      % Stateful inspection firewalls are able to grant a broader range of access for authorized users and activities and actively watch for and block unauthorized users and activities.
      % SOCKS is a circuit-level proxy firewall that provides a secure channel between two computers.
    5) Proxy servers - Forward Proxies, Reverse Proxies, Transparent Proxies
    6) Load balancers - Autoscaling, Round-Robin Scheduling, Session Persistence
    7) VPNs and VPN concentrators - IPsec(Layer 3, L2TP), TCP Port 443
      % L2TP (Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol) over IPSec (Internet Protocol Security) uses encryption to protect transmitted traffic and supports the transmission of multiple protocols.
      * Split-tunnel VPNs provide users with a false sense of security
    8) Network intrusion detection and prevention
      * Anomaly detection, behavior-based detection, and heuristic detection are the same thing.
      % Anomaly detection identifies unusual patterns that may indicate a security incident, based on statistical analysis, without frequent specific threat updates.
      % Signature detection relies on a database of known threat signatures and requires frequent updates from the vendor to recognize new threats.
      % Snort is an open-source Intrusion Detection System (IDS) that monitors network traffic in real-time to detect suspicious activities and possible attacks.
      % The primary functional components of an IDS include information sources (such as logs or network traffic), event report analysis (to analyze data for potential intrusions), and response mechanisms (to act on detected threats).
        The other options listed (database component and event report analysis) are more closely related to typical IDS functions.
      % Heuristic detection identifies potentially malicious code by analyzing the behavior and characteristics of files, even if they do not match known virus signatures.
      % Proximity detectors create a magnetic field around an object or area, and when this field is disturbed by an intruder, the system triggers an alert.
    9) Protocol analyzers - tcpdump, tcpreplay
    10) Unified threat management
    11) Content distribution networks(CDNs)
  D. Network Security Techniques
    1) Restricting network access 
      - Perimeter security, Network Access Control
      - Rule based, role based, time based, location based
      % Rule-based access control (RBAC) uses a set of pre-defined rules that determine access permissions based on conditions such as time of day, IP address, or other criteria.
      % Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) offers several advantages: Low Security Cost: By grouping permissions into roles, Easier to Implement with well-defined roles and responsibilities.
    2) Network access control - EAP(Supplicant), RADIUS (Authentication Server)
      % The network access server is the client within a RADIUS architecture.
    3) Firewall rule management
      % A shadowed rule happens when an earlier rule in the firewall's rule set matches traffic that a later rule was intended to match, rendering the later rule ineffective.
      % An orphaned rule occurs when a service is decommissioned but the related firewall rules are not removed, leaving unused or unnecessary rules.
    4) Router configuration security
      * You won't need to know the syntax of router access control list commands.
    5) Switch configuration security - VLAN Pruning, VLAN Trunk Negotiation, Port Security, DHCP Snooping
    6) Maintaining network availability - Flooding Attack, Flood Guard Technology, Routing Loops, Spanning Tree Protocol(STP), BPDU Guard
    7) Network monitoring - Network Flow data
      % station statistics include metrics related to individual network stations, such as traffic patterns, errors, and packet loss
      % packet capture offers detailed packet-level analysis, while station statistics provide a broader view of network activity for specific devices
    8) Firewall and network logs - SIEM
    9) Network performance metrics - Latency, Jitter
    10) SNMP
      * Use SNMPv3. Earlier versions have critical security flaws.
      % GetRequest messages are used by a network management system to request information from an SNMP agent.
      % SetRequest messages are used by a network management system to change a value on an SNMP agent.
      % Response messages are sent by an SNMP agent to a network management system in reply to GetRequests and SetRequests, not to report unusual events.
      % Trap can an SNMP agent send to a network management system to report an unusual event
    11) Deception technologies - Darknets, DNS Sinkhole
      % Using a DNS sinkhole, an admin can forward malicious DNS requests to another IP address to keep from harm.
    12) Network support - SLA
  E. Specialized Networking
    1) Telephony - VoIP
      % Another term used for Plain Old Telephone Service (POTS) is PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network).
    2) Multimedia collaboration - XMPP
    3) Storage networks
      % Fibre Channel requires the use of dedicated connections and is known for its high speed and reliability in connecting computer data storage to servers.
  F. Transport Encryption
    1) TLS and SSL
      * TLS depends upon pairings of encryption and hash functions known as cipher suites.
      * Session keys are also known as ephemeral keys.
    2) IPsec
      - ESP(Encapsulating Security Payload, Confidentiality), Authentication Header(AH, Integrity)
      - SA(Security Association)
      - Older Linux systems used telnet for remote access
    3) Remote network access
  G. Wireless Networking
    1) Understanding wireless networking
      * Wi-Fi signals travel over open airwaves and are subject to undetectable interception!
      % A site survey helps you detect any unauthorized access points (often referred to as "rogue" access points) that might have been set up in your building.
    2) Wireless encryption
      % WPA3 uses Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE) for key exchange, providing enhanced protection against offline dictionary attacks compared to its predecessors.
      % TKIP (Temporal Key Integrity Protocol) was used in WPA for encryption but has been phased out in favor of more secure methods like CCMP and does not involve key exchange.
      % CCMP (Counter Mode Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code Protocol) is an encryption protocol 
        used in Wi-Fi security for data confidentiality and is not specifically a key exchange mechanism.
    3) Wireless authentication - Captive portals, EAP (Extensible Authentication Protocol)
      - EAP-TLS (Transport Layer Security): Uses public key infrastructure (PKI) for mutual authentication via digital certificates. It’s highly secure but requires a complex setup.
      - EAP-TTLS (Tunneled TLS): Extends EAP-TLS by allowing the use of other authentication methods within a secure tunnel, reducing the need for client certificates.
      - PEAP (Protected EAP): Similar to EAP-TTLS, it uses a TLS tunnel to protect other authentication methods, often combined with MS-CHAPv2.
      - EAP-MD5: Provides simple password-based authentication, but it’s considered less secure due to lack of protection for the handshake.
      - LEAP (Lightweight EAP): Proprietary to Cisco, used mainly in wireless networks but considered weak against certain attacks.
      - EAP-SIM (Subscriber Identity Module): Used for authenticating with SIM cards in mobile networks.
      - EAP-AKA (Authentication and Key Agreement): Used for authentication in 3G mobile networks.
      * Make sure you understand the security status of the specific EAP variants in use on your network.
    4) Wireless signal propagation - Omnidirectional, Directional, Site survey
      % Beam forming uses multiple antennas to detect the location of a device connecting to the wireless access point and then steers the signal in the direction of that device.
      % Pulse modulation refers to a method of encoding information in a signal, rather than focusing wireless signals towards devices.
    5) Wireless networking equipment - Fat Access Points, Wi-Fi Analyzer
      % A wireless controller manages configurations, optimizes performance, and reduces interference among APs in wireless networks.
      % Fat AP refers to an access point with built-in intelligence for handling data processing but does not manage or optimize multiple APs.
  H. Mobile Device Security
    1) Mobile connection methods - Cellular Networks, Wi-Fi Networks, NFC, Bluetooth(30 feet)
    2) Mobile device security
      % Bluejacking involves sending anonymous, unsolicited messages to Bluetooth-enabled devices within range, typically for harmless pranks or marketing purposes.
    3) Mobile device management(MDM)
      % The concept of corporate-owned, personally enabled (COPE) means the organization purchases devices and provides them to employees.
        Each user is then able to customize the device and use it for both work activities and personal activities.
      % A corporate-owned mobile strategy is when the company purchases mobile devices that can support compliance with the security policy.
    4) Mobile device tracking
    5) Mobile application security
    6) Mobile security enforcement
      % Sideloading refers to the process of installing apps on a device from sources other than the official app store.
      % Jailbreaking is the process of removing software restrictions imposed by iOS on devices by Apple, allowing the installation of unauthorized apps,
        but does not specifically refer to the act of installing apps outside of the App Store.
    7) Bring your own device (BYOD)
    8) Mobile deployment models
  I. Host Security
    1) Operating system security - System Hardening
    2) Malware prevention
      - Viruses, Worms, Trojan Horses, Spyware
      - Protection = Sandboxing(isolates)
      - Spam Filtering
      % A companion virus, also known as a "spawning" virus, works by creating a new file with the same name as a legitimate file but with a different extension.
    3) Application management
      * While the terms whitelisting and blacklisting are problematic, you should still know them for the exam.
      % BitLocker is a full disk encryption feature designed to protect data by providing encryption for entire volumes.
      % BitControl does not exist as an application control technology in Microsoft Windows.
      % App control is a general term for technologies that manage or restrict application usage, but it is not a specific built-in feature of Windows.
      % AppLocker is the application control technology built-in to Microsoft Windows
    4) Host-based network security controls
      * Granting network access requires configuring both network and host firewalls.
      % Host firewall is a built-in feature of Microsoft Windows designed to block unauthorized access to or from private networks.
    5) File integrity monitoring(FIM)
      % Tripwire is a file integrity monitoring tool
      % Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager (MECM), formerly known as SCCM, is used for managing large groups of computers,
        focusing on configuration management rather than file integrity monitoring.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5. Identity and Access Management (IAM)
  A. Identification
    1) Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA)
      * Remember that identification and authentication are separate and distinct steps!
      % Authorization limits user activity to actions they are permitted to perform, following the principle of least privilege.
      % Authentication verifies that a user is who they claim to be.
    2) Usernames and access cards
      % Memory cards are used for storing data but do not have the capability to process information or execute tasks.
    3) Biometrics - Low false, crossover error rate (CER)
      % FAR measures the frequency at which unauthorized users are inadvertently admitted.
      % FRR measures the frequency at which legitimate users are denied access to a system or facility.
      % By using multiple fingerprints, the system has more data to work with, which can reduce the chances of false rejections (Type 1 errors).
      % A lower CER indicates a higher-quality biometric device and a higher CER indicates a less accurate device.
      % Signature dynamics, also known as dynamic signature verification, analyzes both the physical motions involved in signing (such as speed, pressure, and rhythm)
        and the static features of the signature itself (such as the shape and style).
    4) Registration and identity proofing
      - Request, Approval, Identity proofing, Issuance
  B. Authentication
    1) Authentication factors
      - Something you know, Something you are, Something you have
      - False Acceptance, False Rejection
    2) Multifactor authentication
    3) Something you have
      % An authentication token that requires a button to be pushed each time to receive a token is based on HOTP (HMAC-based One-Time Password).
    4) Password authentication protocols(PAP) - CHAP(Challenge-Handshake Authentication Protocol)
    5) Single sign-on and federation
      % Federated Identity Management (FIM) is best to implement when you have accounts across multiple service providers with whom you would like to share identity information.
        With FIM, you can use one login to access resources you've been authorized throughout the federation.
      % To implement a single sign-on (SSO) system, the organization could use the following technologies: RADIUS, Kerberos, SESAME (Secure European System for Applications in a Multi-vendor Environment), Active Directory
    6) RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service)- Centralized approach
      * Remember that a RADIUS client is usually an application server!
      % RADIUS typically uses UDP, which is less reliable than TCP, and does not fully encrypt the authentication session, only the password.
      % Diameter supports more complex network access scenarios and is commonly used in modern telecommunications
      % TACACS is the original version of the protocol and is less sophisticated compared to TACACS+, lacking full encryption and the use of TCP for reliable communications.
      % TACACS+ is an authentication protocol that fully encrypts the authentication session, uses the reliable TCP protocol and will work on Cisco devices.
      % The protocol that uses port 1812 to communicate with dial-up users is RADIUS.
    7) Kerberos and LDAP 
      - Kerberos = core protocols for MS Active directory, Port 88
      - LDAP = port 389, Port 636
      - NTLM (NT LAN Manager)
      - TGS (Ticket Granting Server), AS (Authentication Server),TGT (Ticket Granting Ticket)
      % TGT includes information about the client and a copy of the client TGS session key.
      % When a client wishes to access a service, the client contacts the TGS.
      % The AS looks up the user in its database and retrieves the user's password. It performs authentication of the end user.
    8) SAML - Security Assertion Markup Langauge
    9) Identity as a service (IDaaS) - Directory Integration, Application Integration
    10) OAuth and OpenID Connect
      % OAuth is an authorization protocol, but not an authentication protocol.
    11) Certificate-based authentication
    12) Passwordless authentication - Key-Based Authentication
  C. Accountability
    1) Accountability - Logs must be secure
      % Authentication is necessary to ensure a network supports accountability.
      % Accountability is possible by reviewing logs and tracking user activity.
      % Authentication of individuals is also needed to ensure the audit trails provide proof of identities listed in the logs.
    2) Session management - Timeouts, randomized session IDs, Encrypt cookies
  D. Account Management
    1) Understand account and privilege management - Least Privilege, Segregation of Duties, Job Rotation, Mandatory Vacation
      % When elevated privileges are required, the "Run as" command temporarily grants the necessary permissions without exposing the entire session to administrative rights, thereby adhering to the principle of least privilege.
    2) Account types - User Account, Privileged Account, Shared Account, Service Account
      * Avoid the use of shared/generic accounts and credentials.
    3) Account Policies - Group Policy Object(GPO)
      % Group policies provide centralized management and configuration of all entities to enforce security and compliance standards throughout the organization.
      % Using a domain group policy allows you to centrally manage and enforce the restriction across all computers in the domain.
    4) Password policies
      * Current NIST guidance says that passwords should not expire.
      % A passphrase is a sequence of words or a sentence that is easier to remember than a random combination of characters
    5) Manage roles
      % A security group assigns users to roles within his Windows enterprise, as it allows for the grouping of user accounts, computer accounts,
        and other security groups into manageable units for assigning permissions and access rights.
      % A Distribution group is used primarily in email applications to send messages to groups of users and is not designed for assigning roles or managing permissions.
    6) Account monitoring - Inaccurate Permissions, Attestation, Unauthorized Use, Geotagging, Geofencing
    7) Provisioning and de-provisioning - Privilege Creep
  E. Authorization
    1) Understand authorization - Least Privilege, Account Review
      * Be able to identify least privilege and segregation of duties issues in a scenario
    2) Mandatory access controls (MAC)
      % In a Mandatory Access Control (MAC) system, objects are the resources or data entities that are being protected.
      % Hybrid environments combine both hierarchical and compartmentalized environments so that security levels have subcompartments.
    3) Discretionary access controls (DAC)
      % In a discretionary access control system, individual users have the ability to alter access permissions.
    4) Access control lists
      % An access control matrix is a table used to specify the access rights of various capability (e.g., users, processes) to different objects (e.g., files, resources) in a system.
    5) Database access control - SQL Server Authentication, Windows Authentication, Mixed Authentication
      % Polyinstantiation allows the insertion of multiple records that appear to have the same primary key values into a database at different classification levels. 
      % Detective controls are designed to identify and alert the organization to unauthorized activities, including when authorized users are involved in such actions.
    6) Advanced authorization concepts - RBAC, ABAC, location-based control, Time-of-Day Restriction
      * Risk-based access controls apply stronger standards in situations posing greater risk.
  F. Access Control Attacks
    1) Social engineering - Authority and Trust, Intimidation(Sharing), Consensus/Social Proof, Scarcity, Urgency, Familiarity/Liking
    2) Impersonation attacks - Spam, Phishing, Spear Phishing, Whaling, Pharming, Vishing, Smishing and SPIM, Spoofing, Brand Impersonation
    3) identity fraud and pretexting - Pretexting Attacks
      % In a pretexting attack, the attacker contacts a third-party company pretending to be the consumer and attempts to gain access to that consumer's account.
    4) Watering hole attacks
      % Watering hole attacks use sneaky techniques to lure unsuspecting users and infect their systems with malware. They use commonly visited sites without the website owner's knowledge.
    5) Physical social engineering - Shoulder surfing, Dumpster Diving, Tailgating

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6. Security Assessment and Testing
  A. Vulnerability Scanning
    1) What is vulnerability management?
      - Vulnerability Patching, Vulnerability management (detects, remediates, reports)
      - PCI DSS = quarterly, ASV
      - FISMA = regularly
      - Network vulnerability scan, application, web application scans
    2) Identify scan targets 
      - Asset Inventory
      - Impact, Likelihood, Criticality
    3) Scan configuration
      % Vulnerability scanning tools are specifically designed to identify security weaknesses, vulnerabilities, and potential exploits in networks, systems, or applications.
    4) Scan perspective
      - Agent-based scanning, Credential-based scanning
    5) Analyzing scan reports
      - vulnerability severity, system criticality, information sensitivity, remediation difficulty, system exposure
      % Systems with many or risky services installed should be prioritized higher for scanning.
      % The operating system is not necessarily a major factor in deciding whether a device should be scanned.
      - Vulnerability validation
    6) Correlating scan results
      % If the vulnerability scanner is in the screened subnet, the scanner has unrestricted access to the web server because it doesn't need to pass through the firewall on the way to the web server.
  B. Penetration Testing
    1) Penetration testing
      % It is a proactive security assessment method used to identify and exploit vulnerabilities in a system, network, or application.
    2) Ethical disclosure - Responsible Disclosure
    3) Bug bounty
    4) Cybersecurity exercises
  C. Log Reviews
    1) Logging security information - Log and Data sources, Syslog(Linux), Tags, NXLog(Centralize)
    2) Security information and event management(SIEM) - SOAR
    3) Continuous security monitoring
      - Monitoring Process (Define, Establish, Implement, Analyze/Report, Respond, Review/Update)
      - Anomaly Analysis, Trend Analysis, Behavioral Analysis, Availability Analysis
    4) Endpoint monitoring - IEBA (User and Entity Behavior Analytics)
  D. Code Testing
    1) Code review
    2) Code tests 
      - Code Security Tests(SAST[Static] = SCA[Software Composition Analysis], DAST[Dynamic] = Synthetic transaction, IAST[Interactive])
      * Different test types are complementary, rather than competitors!
      % Static code testing software analyzes code without executing it, checking for syntax errors, coding standards, and other issues.
    3) Fuzz testing - Avoid Looking Like a Hacker
    4) Interface testing - APIs(Application Programming Interface)
    5) Misuse case testing
    6) Test coverage analysis - Percentage software => Test Coverage = Cases Tested / Total Cases
    7) Code repositories - Integrity Measurement
    8) Third-party code - Libraries, SDKs(Software Development Kits)
    9) Software risk analysis and mitigation - Sandboxing
  E. Disaster Recovery Planning
    1) Disaster recovery - RTO (Recovery Time Objective), RPO (Recovery Point Objective), RSL (Recovery Service Level)
      * Disaster recovery efforts end only when the business is operating normally in its primary environment.
      % The recovery time objective (RTO) is the targeted amount of time to restore a service after a failure during a disaster recovery.
      % The recovery service level (RSL) is the percentage of a service that must be available during a disaster.
    2) Backups - Full backups, Differential, Incremental
      % Any backup strategy must include full backups at some point in the process.
        Incremental backups are created faster than differential backups because of the number of files it is necessary to back up each time.
      % Incremental backs up all the new files that have changed since the last full or incremental backup and resets the archive bit.
    3) Restoring backups
    4) Disaster recovery sites - Hot Sites(Fully operational), Cold Sites(Empty), Warm Sites(not maintained), Offsite Storage
      % Contracts typically focus on ensuring that the vendor provides a functional offsite facility that meets the agreed-upon criteria, such as availability, cost, testing access, and general site availability.
    5) Testing BC/DR plans - Business Continuity (BC) and Disaster Recovery (DR) plans
    6) After action reports
  F. Assessing Security Processes
    1) Collect security process data
    2) Management review and approval
    3) Security metrics
      % KRIs(Key Risk Indicators) are measures that seek to quantify the security risk facing an organization.
      % KPIs(Key Performance Indicators) are metrics that demonstrate the success of the security program in achieving its objectives.
    4) Audits and assessments - User Access Reviews
      % Account reviews should verify that every ACTIVE account is associated with a current employee.
      % The audit section ensures that all user activities are tracked, logged, and reviewed, providing a mechanism for tracing actions back to individual users, which is essential for maintaining accountability.
    5) Control management - Every Rule Has An Exception
      % Compensating controls are specifically designed to mitigate the risk of exceptions to security policies by providing alternative security measures.
      % Administrative controls involve policies, procedures, and guidelines to manage people's behavior and operations, not directly focused on exceptions.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

7. Security Operations
  A. Investigations and Forensics
    1) Conducting investigations
      - Operational Investigation(technology issue), Criminal Investigation(possible crimes), Civil Investigation(Disputes), Regulatory Investigation(government regulators)
      * Cybersecurity investigators should leave interrogation to law enforcement!
      % Computer-assisted crimes generally involve using technology to commit or facilitate a crime, rather than directly harming computer systems themselves.
    2) Evidence types
      - Real(tangible objects), Documentary(written information), Testimonial(Witness)
      - Documentary = Authentication rule, Best evidence (Original documents are superior), Parol evidence(Written contract agreement)
      - Secondary evidence refers to copies or reproductions of original documents when the original is not available.
      % Testimonial direct evidence is provided based on a witness's own observations. Testimonial expert evidence is conclusions based upon other evidence.
      % Documentary evidence consists of written information, such as server logs.
      % Corroborative evidence helps to establish the validity of a point or an idea by providing additional information or testimony that is consistent with the primary evidence.
    3) Introduction to forensics
      - Digital Forensics, Volatility(Permanence)
    4) System and file forensics - Hashes Protect Evidence(Unique file signature)
      * Never try to perform forensics yourself unless you've received appropriate training.
      % In the preservation phase, the goal is to ensure that all evidence is captured and documented accurately without altering the original state of the data.
    5) Network forensics - Wireshark Monitors Networks, NetFlow Summarizes Traffic
    6) Software forensics - Intellectual Property, Malware Origins
    7) Mobile device forensics
    8) Embedded device forensics
      % A write blocker prevents a forensic examiner from accidentally corrupting evidence while creating an image of a disk.
      % Each piece of evidence should be accompanied by an evidence log that records important events that happen in the lifecycle of the evidence.
      % Hashing is used to protect evidence by providing a unique file signature, demonstrating that a file hasn't been altered.
    9) Chain of custody - A paper trail of evidence
    10) Reporting and documenting incidents - Formal Incident Report
      % Federal law does not require all U.S. businesses to report verified security incidents to US-CERT; reporting requirements vary by industry and specific regulations.
    11) Electronic discovery (eDiscovery)
      % For evidence to be admissible, it must meet certain criteria, including sufficiency, reliability, and relevance.
  B. Privilege Management
    1) Need to know and least privilege
      - need to know(information access), least privilege(system permissions)
      - Privilege Aggregation
    2) Privileged account management(PAM) - Password Vaulting, Command Proxying, Monitoring, Credential Management
  C. Incident Management
    1) Build an incident response program - Incident Response Plan
      % The computer security incident response team(CSIRT) has IT department member, Legal department member, public relations department member, and management team member
    2) Creating an incident response team - IR Service Provider
    3) Incident communications plan - Involving Law Enforcement, Secure Communication
      % While you may believe a law has been violated, you do not typically have an obligation to report this to law enforcement.
    4) Incident identification - Security incident and event management(SIEM), First Responders Must Act Quickly
      * The highest priority of a first responder must be containing damage through isolation
    5) Escalation and notification
    6) Mitigation - mitigation ends with stability
    7) Containment techniques
      % When we divide networks into logical segments, grouped by types of users or systems, we have performed segmentation.
      % When we move compromised systems to a network that is completely disconnected from the rest of the network, we have performed isolation. That is not the case in this scenario.
    8) Incident eradication and recovery - Eradication(Remove all traces), Recovery, Attackers Compromise Systems
    9) Validation
    10) Post-incident activities - Incident Summary Report
      % Independent facilitator is the most effective person to lead a lessons learned review
      % The IR personnel are too close to the situation and may not be able to remain impartial or assist others to share their thoughts and feelings.
  D. Personnel Safety
    1) Personnel safety
      * Watch for tricky questions that ask you to prioritize other actions over personal safety
    2) Emergency management
      % Exigent circumstances are used in situations where immediate action is necessary to prevent the imminent destruction of evidence, escape of a suspect, or harm to individuals or law enforcement officers.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8. Software Development Security
  A. Software Development Lifecycle
    1) Software platforms - Endpoint Applications, Client/Server Apps, Web Applications
      % Endpoint applications run on the host computer only without interacting with other systems.
    2) Development methodologies - Integrated product team(IPT)
      % The spiral model has four stages: requirements gathering/identification, design, build, and evaluation/risk analysis
      % The manifesto for agile development talks about valuing individuals and interactions, working software, customer collaboration, and responding to change.
    3) Scaled agile framework
      % The Large Solution SAFe configuration focuses on coordinating multiple Agile Release Trains (ARTs) and suppliers, which is necessary for building large, complex solutions but does not encompass the full breadth of SAFe.
      % The Full SAFe configuration incorporates all aspects of SAFe, including essential, large solution, and portfolio levels, to support enterprises with large and complex solutions.
      % The Essential SAFe configuration is the basic building block of SAFe, focusing on the team and program levels, but it does not include the large solution and portfolio levels.
    4) Maturity models - Capability Maturity Model Integration(CMMI), Software Assurance Maturity Model(SAMM)
      % Level 3 is defined and activities include: decision analysis & resolution, integrated project management, organizational process definition, organizational training,
        organizational process focus, product integration, requirements development, risk management, technical solution, validation, and verification.
      % Level 2 is managed and activities include: configuration management, measurement & analysis, project monitoring & control, project planning, process & product QA,
        requirements management, and supplier agreement management.
    5) Automation and DevOps - Infrastructure as Code
      * DevSecOps applies DevOps techniques to a cybersecurity program.
      % The DevOps model prioritizes operational tasks over development efforts.
      % DevOps combines Development and Operations to rapidly release code and meet customer demands.
    6) Programming Languages - Reverse Engineering
      % An assembler converts assembly language, a low-level programming language, into executable machine code, not the reverse.
      % A compiler translates source code written in a high-level programming language into machine code or bytecode, but it does not perform the reverse process of generating source code from executable code.
      % Interpreters translate source code into machine language when the software runs.
        An interpreter directly executes instructions written in a programming or scripting language without previously converting them into machine code,
        differing from decompilers which work with already compiled code.
      % Reverse engineering involves examining and analyzing the components, structure, and functionality of an application or system to understand how it works typically involving decompiling or disassembling object code (which is compiled code).
    7) Acquired software - COTS(Commercial Off the Shelf), Software as a Service, Open-source
      % The phase of the software acquisition process in which the product is actually deployed is the Monitoring phase.
  B. Application Attacks
    1) OWASP top ten 
      - Broken Access Control, Cryptographic failures, Injection, Insecure Design, Security misconfiguration, Vulnerabile and outdated components, Identification and authentication failures, software and data integrity failures
        security logging and monitoring failures, server-side request forgery
    2) Application Security - Prompt Patching is critical
      % Conducting cross-site scripting is a type of attack rather than a hardening technique, making it not a standard method for improving application security.
      % Validating user input is a critical security practice that helps prevent malicious data from causing harm or unauthorized actions within an application.
      % Encrypting sensitive information protects it from unauthorized access and ensures data confidentiality, a fundamental aspect of application hardening.
    3) Preventing SQL injection
      * You won't need to write SQL on the exam, but you should know how SQL injection works.
      % Single quotes are essential in input for a SQL injection attack because they allow the attacker to escape the built-in SQL query.
    4) Understanding cross-site scripting - Use input validation
    5) Request forgery
      * Cross-site request forgery, CSRF, XSRF, and "sea surf" all refer to the same attack.
      - XSRF secretly sends requests, Server-side Request Forgery(SSRF)
      % Cross-site request forgery vulnerabilities trick users into executing actions on a web application in which they are authenticated, without their knowledge, but do not allow arbitrary command execution on the system.
      % Client-side XSRF attacks are on-path browser-based attacks on individual hosts with multiple browser tabs opened and logged into and with authentications crossing over browser tabs.
        Preventing the use of HTTP GET requests make it difficult for client-side XSRFs to take place.
      % network segmentation is not an effective defense against client-side XSRF attacks which are on-path browser-based attacks on individual hosts with multiple browser tabs opened and logged into and with authentications crossing over browser tabs.
    6) Defending against directory traversal
    7) Overflow attacks - Buffer Overflow Attacks
      % Buffer overflow attacks seek to write data to areas of memory reserved for other purposes.
    8) Explaining cookies and attachments
    9) Session hijacking - Guessable cookies
    10) Code execution attacks
      % Code execution attacks occur when an attacker exploits a vulnerability in a system that allows the attacker to run commands on that system.
    11) Privilege escalation
    12) Driver manipulation - Refactoring, Shimming
      % Driver refactoring involves modifying and improving the internal structure of existing driver code without changing its external behavior, not for malicious purposes.
      % Driver shimming is a technique that involves wrapping malicious code around a legitimate driver to bypass security measures or inject malicious code into a system.
    13) Memory vulnerabilities - Memory Overflow, Memory Leak, Memory Pointers, DLL Injection
      % Memory dumps capture the state of the system's memory at a specific point in time and can contain valuable information such as running processes, active network connections, and data in memory,
        including potentially sensitive information like encryption keys or cached data.
    14) Race condition vulnerabilities - Time of Check/Time of Use
  C. Secure Coding Practices
    1) Input validation - whitelisting, blacklisting
      * Input validation should always be performed on the server.
    2) Parameterized queries - Stored Procedures
      % A stored procedure is an example of a parameterized query.
    3) Authentication/session management issues - Hashing, Salting, Transport layer security
    4) Output encoding - HTML encoding, URL encoding
    5) Error and exception handling
    6) Code signing
    7) Database Security - 1NF
      * You don't need to know the details of the normal forms on the exam.
      - Database Activity Monitoring, Stored Procedures
      % There is an active and healthy debate in the database community about how closely database designers should follow the normal forms.
    8) Data de-identification - Anonymization
      % You can often combine seemingly innocuous fields to uniquely identify an individual.
    9) Data obfuscation - Rainbow Table attack, Tokenization, Masking


